Chapter 1, Verse 1:
Dhritarashtra said: O Sanjaya, after gathering on the holy field of Kurukshetra, what did my people and the Pandavas do, being desirous to fight?

Chapter 1, Verse 41:
Alas, how strange it is that we have agreed to kill our own relatives out of greed for the kingdom. O Sanjaya, I do not see how any good can come from this killing.

Chapter 2, Verse 2:
O Sanjaya, seeing the Pandava army arrayed, and seeing Bhima about to engage in battle, what did King Dhritarashtra's son do? Speak, I pray.

Chapter 2, Verse 11:
Arjuna said: O Govinda, I see the members of the Bharata family standing before me in this battlefield. My mind reels.

Chapter 2, Verse 20:
For the soul, there is neither birth nor death at any time. He has not come into being, does not come into being, and will not come into being. He is unborn, eternal, permanent, and primeval. He is not destroyed when the body is destroyed.

Chapter 2, Verse 25:
It is said that the soul is invisible, inconceivable, immutable, and unchangeable. Knowing this, you should not grieve for the body.

Chapter 2, Verse 47:
You have a right to perform your prescribed duties, but you are not entitled to the fruits of your actions. Never consider yourself the cause of the results of your activities, and never be attached to not doing your duty.

Chapter 2, Verse 50:
A person in pure consciousness is not attached to the results of work, nor do the causes of work bind him. All his activities are devoid of desire for fruitive results.

Chapter 3, Verse 5:
All human beings are forced to engage in some kind of action, whether they like it or not, because there are three modes of material nature (goodness, passion, and ignorance) which compel one to work.

Chapter 3, Verse 19:
Therefore, keeping yourself always engaged in transcendental loving service to Me, as the goal of your life, surrender yourself completely to Me by intellect and mind, and work always under My direction and never act for sense gratification.

Chapter 3, Verse 27:
All actions are performed by the modes of material nature. The bewildered spirit soul, under the influence of illusion, thinks himself to be the doer. But the soul actually does nothing - all activities happen through the modes of nature.

Chapter 3, Verse 35:
It is far better to discharge one's prescribed duty, even though faultily, than another's duty perfectly. Destruction in the course of performing one's own duty is better than engaging in another's duties, for to follow another's path is dangerous.

Chapter 4, Verse 7:
Whenever there is a decline in righteousness and an increase in unrighteousness, O Arjuna, at that time I manifest Myself on earth to protect the pious and to annihilate the miscreants, as well as to reestablish the principles of religion.

Chapter 4, Verse 8:
To deliver the pious and to annihilate the miscreants, as well as to reestablish the principles of religion, I advent Myself millennium after millennium.

Chapter 4, Verse 9:
One who knows the transcendental nature of My appearance and activities does not, upon leaving the body, take his birth again in this material world, but attains My eternal abode, O Arjuna.

Chapter 4, Verse 17:
The intricacies of action are very hard to understand. Therefore, one should know properly what action is, what forbidden action is, and what inaction is. He who understands this perfectly is wise among men and is in the transcendental position, although engaged in all sorts of activities.

Chapter 4, Verse 18:
One is said to have achieved success in yoga when he renounces all material desires and sense gratification, being satisfied in the self alone by transcendental knowledge and self-realization.

Chapter 5, Verse 8:
Do perform your prescribed duty, for action is better than inaction. Even the maintenance of your body cannot be accomplished by inaction.

Chapter 5, Verse 24:
The yogis, having achieved union with the Divine and freed from sin and suffering, attain the infinite State of Liberation.

Chapter 6, Verse 5:
One should raise himself by his own mind, not degrade himself. The mind is the friend of the conditioned soul, and his enemy as well.

Chapter 6, Verse 6:
For him who has conquered the mind, the mind is the best of friends; but for one who has failed to do so, his mind will remain the greatest enemy.

Chapter 6, Verse 26:
From wherever the mind wanders due to its flickering and unsteady nature, one should certainly withdraw it and bring it back under the control of the Self.

Chapter 6, Verse 47:
And of all yogis, he who always abides in Me with all his heart and renders transcendental loving service to Me - he is the most intimately united with Me in yoga and is the highest of all.

Chapter 7, Verse 7:
There is nothing whatsoever higher than Me. Everything rests upon Me, as pearls are strung on a thread.

Chapter 7, Verse 8:
O son of Kunti, I am the taste of water, the light of the sun and the moon, the syllable om in the Vedic mantras; I am the sound in ether, and I am the ability in man.

Chapter 8, Verse 5:
And whoever at the end of his life quits his body, remembering Me alone, at once attains My nature. Of this there is no doubt.

Chapter 8, Verse 15:
After attaining Me, the great souls, who are yogis in devotion, never return to this temporary world, which is full of miseries, because they have attained the highest perfection.

Chapter 9, Verse 2:
This knowledge is the king of education, the most secret of all secrets. It is the purest knowledge, and because it gives direct perception of the self by realization, it is the perfection of religion. It is everlasting, and it is joyfully performed.

Chapter 9, Verse 22:
But those who always engage in My devotional service and meditate upon Me with all their hearts are guaranteed to attain Me. To such unflinching devotees I am swift in coming to them and rescuing them from the cycle of birth and death.

Chapter 10, Verse 8:
I am the source of all spiritual and material worlds. Everything emanates from Me. The wise who perfectly engage in My devotional service and surrender their lives unto Me are certainly the best among all beings.

Chapter 10, Verse 10:
To those who are constantly devoted and who engage in My devotional service with love, I give the understanding by which they can come to Me.

Chapter 11, Verse 33:
Therefore get up and prepare to fight. By following the regulations of the fight, you will conquer your enemies and enjoy a flourishing kingdom.

Chapter 12, Verse 6:
Those whose minds are fixed on My personal form, always engaged in My service, and who surrender all their results to Me, are certainly mine, and I will swiftly deliver them from the ocean of birth and death.

Chapter 12, Verse 8:
Just fix your mind upon Me, the Supreme Personality of Godhead, and engage all your intelligence in Me. Thus you will live in Me always, without doubt.

Chapter 12, Verse 13:
One who is not envious but is a kind friend to all living entities, who does not think himself a proprietor and is free from false ego, who is equal in both happiness and distress, tolerant, always satisfied, self-controlled, and engaged in devotional service with determination, his mind and intelligence are always in the Supreme.

Chapter 13, Verse 2:
This body is called the field, O Bharat, and one who knows this body is called the knower of the field. Knowledge of the field, and the knower of the field, is considered to be knowledge according to the standard authorities.

Chapter 13, Verse 34:
Wherever there is the Supreme Person, there is fullness, beauty, victory, extraordinary power, and morality. That is my opinion.

Chapter 14, Verse 6:
The mode of goodness is illuminating and non-sinful. Those situated in this mode become conditioned by a feeling of happiness and knowledge, O sinless one.

Chapter 14, Verse 8:
The mode of passion is characterized by rajas, arising from a strong desire for enjoyment. O son of Kunti, it binds the embodied living entity by attachment to fruitive activity.

Chapter 14, Verse 9:
The mode of ignorance is characterized by tamas. Know that this mode is born of nescience and deludes all embodied living entities, O Bharata. It causes them to become mad, fearful, doubtful, bewildered, and forgetful.

Chapter 15, Verse 1:
The Supreme Being said: They speak of an eternal fig tree whose roots are above and whose branches are below. Its leaves are the Vedic hymns, and he who knows the tree is the knower of the Vedas.

Chapter 15, Verse 15:
I am seated in everyone's heart, and from Me all memory, knowledge, and forgetfulness come. By all the Vedas am I to be known; indeed I am the compiler of Vedanta, and I am the knower of the Vedas.

Chapter 16, Verse 1:
The Supreme Blessed Lord said: Fearlessness, purification of one's existence, cultivation of spiritual knowledge, charity, self-control, performance of sacrifice, study of the Vedas, austerity, and simplicity; nonviolence, truthfulness, freedom from anger, renunciation, tranquility, aversion to faultfinding, compassion for all living entities, freedom from covetousness, gentleness, modesty, and steady determination.

Chapter 16, Verse 3:
The transcendental qualities are conducive to liberation, whereas the demoniac qualities make for bondage. Do not worry, O son of Kunti, for you are born with the divine qualities.

Chapter 17, Verse 15:
And satisfaction, simplicity, gravity, self-control, and purification of one's existence are said to be austerities of the body.

Chapter 17, Verse 16:
Austerity of speech consists in speaking words that are truthful, pleasing, beneficial, and not agitating to others, and also in regularly reciting Vedic literature.

Chapter 18, Verse 2:
The Blessed Lord said: Renunciation is called the giving up of all fruitive activities. The wise declare that the renunciation of the fruits of action is relinquishment.

Chapter 18, Verse 5:
Acts of sacrifice, charity, and penance are not to be given up but should be performed. Indeed, sacrifice, charity, and penance purify even the great souls.

Chapter 18, Verse 48:
It is better to engage in one's own occupation, even though imperfectly, than to accept another's occupation and perform it well. Prescribed duties performed as an obligation are better abandoned, because the results of such duties are always mixed with doubt and fear.

Chapter 18, Verse 66:
Abandon all varieties of religion and just surrender unto Me. I shall deliver you from all sinful reactions. Do not fear.

Chapter 18, Verse 78:
Wherever is Krishna, the master of all mystics, and wherever is Arjuna, the supreme archer, there will also certainly be opulence, victory, extraordinary power, and morality. That is my opinion.
